---
layout: default
title: Dai
subtitle: pure memes
dai-tub: 0xf24888d405776cc56d29e70448172380708bb7a5
---

## Introduction

TODO - seth, memes, naming

## Pooled collateral vault

Pooled collateral is represented by a token with variable supply, which is the mechanism by which surpluses generated by the system are realised. Surpluses are paid via burning causing the value of PETH to rise proportional to collateral. If PETH has to be issued to cover forced liquidations the value of the claim may also fall during times of volatility. Over time a well managed system is expected to accumulate surplus which will be earned by SKR holders.

Anyone can deposit `ETH` to the pool via `join`, and withdraw `ETH` via `exit`. Pooled `ETH` is represented by `PETH` which is minted on `join` and burned on `exit`, representing a proportional claim on pooled collateral.

#### Join

Buy PETH for ETH

Join the collateral pool by depositing ETH into the DSVault. Receive PETH in return - a claim on the deposited ETH.

{% capture seth-cli %}
  $ seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "join(uint256)" "10.0"
{% endcapture %}

{% capture dai-cli %}
  $ dai join 10.0
{% endcapture %}

{% include tabs.html id=1 seth=seth-cli dai=dai-cli %}

#### Exit

Withdraw collateral by returning PETH to the DSVault in exchange for the proportional amount of ETH.

{% capture seth-cli %}
  $ seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "exit(uint256)" "10.0"
{% endcapture %}

{% capture dai-cli %}
  $ dai exit 10.0
{% endcapture %}

{% include tabs.html id=2 seth=seth-cli dai=dai-cli %}

`Exit` will return more or less ETH tokens for each PETH than at `join` depending whether the system made a profit or loss over the lifetime of the collateral deposited to the pool.


## Cups

TODO - diagram

A CDP - Collateralized Debt Position (`cup`), allows pooled ETH to be used as collateral for issuance of new DAI.

### `open`

Open an empty position.

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "open()"
```

### `give`

Transfer a `cup` to a different owner.

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "give(bytes32,address)" "<cup-address>" "<new-owner-address>"
```

### `lock`

Add `skr` collateral to a `cup`

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "lock(bytes32,uint256)" "<cup-addresss>" "<amount-in-skr>"
```

### `free`

Add `skr` collateral to a `cup`

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "lock(bytes32,uint256)" "<cup-address>" "<amount-in-skr>"
```

### `draw`

Issue a specified amount of `dai`

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "draw(bytes32,uint256)" "<cup-address>" "<amount-in-dai>"
```

### `wipe`

Repay some portion of oustanding `dai` debt.

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "wipe(bytes32,uint256)" "<cup-address>" "<amount-in-dai>"
```

### `shut`

Close a cup

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "shut(bytes32)" "<cup-address>"
```

## Liquidation Market

TODO - diagram

### `bite`

Liquidate a vunerable cup

```bash
seth send "{{ page.dai-tub }}" "bite(bytes32)" "<cup-address>"
```

### `boom`

Buy `dai` when the system is in surplus

```bash
seth send "<dai-tap-address>" "boom(uint256)" "<amount-in-skr>")
```
### `bust`

Sell `dai` when the system is in deficit

```bash
seth send "<dai-tap-address>" "bust(uint256)" "<amount-in-skr>"
```

## Global Settlement

- Cage
- Cash
