oasis/graphql/index.md, before:

---
layout: oasis/graphql
title: Oasis Query API
subtitle: GraphQL
---

### Query API

GraphQL is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those
queries. It provides a complete and understandable description of the
available data, and gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need
and nothing more.

Try out the api in the interactive [console](https://data.makerdao.com/v1/console).

Tip: use the `_`underscore to trigger a list of available fields for autocompleting queries.

---

![]({{ "images/graphql.oasis.png" | relative_url }})

---

##### Usage

If you're new to GraphQL you might want to start [here](https://graphql.org).

Interact programatically via the HTTP endpoint: [data.makerdao.com/v1](https://data.makerdao.com/v1)

```bash
$ curl -XPOST  \
       -H "Content-Type:application/graphql" \
       -d 'query { allOasisTrades { totalCount } }' \
       https://data.makerdao.com/v1

  {
    "data": {
      "allOasisTrades": {
        "totalCount":23756
      }
    }
  }
```

##### Client Libraries

For simple requests over http you might want to check out [GraphQL
Request](https://github.com/prismagraphql/graphql-request).

We also like the React-friendly [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com/client).

And the [Relay](https://facebook.github.io/relay/docs/en/introduction-to-relay.html)
library.

And many more [here](http://graphql.org/code/#graphql-clients).

###### Schema

Use the left submenu to browse the schema. Detailed docs can be found [here](https://graphql-docs.com/docs/?graphqlUrl=https://data.makerdao.com/v1).

Commit message:

Add graphql prototype status text

oasis/graphql/index.md, after:

---
layout: oasis/graphql
title: Oasis Query API
subtitle: GraphQL
---

### Query API

_Status: prototype - not suitable for production use._

_This is an early prototype service which is intended to allow developers to experiment
with a GraphQL api, whilst informing development of our production api, which is being
built with VulcanizeDB._

GraphQL is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those
queries. It provides a complete and understandable description of the
available data, and gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need
and nothing more.

Try out the api in the interactive [console](https://data.makerdao.com/v1/console).

Tip: use the `_`underscore to trigger a list of available fields for autocompleting queries.

---

![]({{ "images/graphql.oasis.png" | relative_url }})

---

##### Usage

If you're new to GraphQL you might want to start [here](https://graphql.org).

Interact programatically via the HTTP endpoint: [data.makerdao.com/v1](https://data.makerdao.com/v1)

```bash
$ curl -XPOST  \
       -H "Content-Type:application/graphql" \
       -d 'query { allOasisTrades { totalCount } }' \
       https://data.makerdao.com/v1

  {
    "data": {
      "allOasisTrades": {
        "totalCount":23756
      }
    }
  }
```

##### Client Libraries

For simple requests over http you might want to check out [GraphQL
Request](https://github.com/prismagraphql/graphql-request).

We also like the React-friendly [Apollo Client](https://www.apollographql.com/client).

And the [Relay](https://facebook.github.io/relay/docs/en/introduction-to-relay.html)
library.

And many more [here](http://graphql.org/code/#graphql-clients).

###### Schema

Use the left submenu to browse the schema. Detailed docs can be found [here](https://graphql-docs.com/docs/?graphqlUrl=https://data.makerdao.com/v1).
